hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com
i'm your host dylan grabowski
this episode of the smart economy
podcast is part of the series focusing
on women in blockchain
in episode 4 of the women in blockchain
series i chat with grace gui chief
marketing officer at jsquare a crypto
investment and advisory company jsquare
is an international vc firm focusing on
the nft gamefly and metaverse sectors
with a mid to long term focus
grace was also the program manager at
the neo foundation where i was lucky to
have worked alongside her for a couple
of years
in this conversation grace and i discuss
her background in the legal field and
how she transitioned into the blockchain
industry
the international appeal that
cryptocurrency offers
how broader macro trends impact
cryptocurrency markets
the differences between market cycles
current and future trends that grace is
monitoring
philosophical differences between
different vc firms
the inherent inclusivity of the
blockchain industry and much more
just a reminder nothing said on this
podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell
any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
financial advice
and that the host or guests may hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
with that said i really enjoyed chatting
with grace and i hope you enjoy the
conversation too
[Music]
hey everyone dylan with the smart
economy podcast today we are joined by
grace gui she is the cmo of
how are you doing today grace hi dylan
thanks for having me here today yeah hi
everyone i'm grace from jayskier it's a
good day it's also a hot day yeah it's
friday thanks god it's friday i should
say that in the past few months and even
today
it's an ordinary day but it's a new day
thanks for joining the pod on a friday
night so you said that before we hopped
in the pod you were out to dinner with
friends and this is kind of
the first time in many months maybe or
one of the first few times in many
months that you know there aren't many
lockdowns and you're able to get out and
move around so
to kind of introduce yourself to the
podcast listeners
can you tell us where you're based and
who you are and what you do yeah for
sure um currently i'm based in shanghai
china and i think maybe a few friends
have heard that china has been locked
down in
past few months due to the combat
situation yeah now we are free again
and so today i really enjoy a very nice
dinner at the balcony with a few friends
currently i'm like working in one
venture capital called j square as cmo
taking care of the post investment
conversation as well as the marketing
and branding
in the company and before that i was
like head of marketing at dfg
so j square and the dfg we have like the
same fund james war and uh the two funds
difference will be their investment
focus
for dfg it will be more general and it
starts earlier since like 2015 had a lot
of deals in
regulated on c5 providers such as like
ledger x circle coin list and the group
as well as deeply engaged in the pocket
or ecosystem investment while j square
will be more focused on the mass user
adoption such as like nft game find
matters
maybe a few friends know that before
joining vc i'm part of new ecosystem as
well i was a program manager
communications manager in new foundation
and also starting from the overseas
marketing team i've been a new over
three years so it's my first job in the
crypto space i really love the community
there love the members in ngd and the
new foundation and i enjoy my days in
new yeah so i'm very happy today to have
a conversation with
my friend a new ecosystem we did a lot
of working together at neo news today
when you were at neo especially when you
were doing the overseas communication
so you and i have actually had gotten
the chance to work together a lot which
has been great
but you did mention that before you were
at neo foundation and before you were at
jsquare and dfg
that you were not in the crypto space so
can you tell us a little bit about
what your background was before crypto
and what industry was that yes actually
i really mentioned that part in the
crypto space now because i've been in
the space for years my educational
background is low so i got like
logically in actual
masters and my first job actually was in
a law firm as paralegal but i realized
that maybe i don't like it that much but
it may be a waste of time after several
years of learning law so my second job
is a solution manager in one online law
firm that's kind of the first listed
law firm in china
mainly the daily job will be
to talk with our clients to adopt legal
service that's kind of my journey before
joining the crypto space
but one day i still think that maybe i'm
not the law girl
so i'm i'm wondering okay if i don't
like law what shall i do what can i do
and uh
i'm just like thinking about the
direction in future so i understand that
if you want to compete with the
newcomers or compete with other
ventures in the space maybe i don't have
like advantages that much so i'm trying
to find a new industry and at that time
actually there will be uh several
choices
the crypto
the ar vr yeah maybe the men too because
i think that these two are quite popular
and it seems that i can fit myself in
some certain category and eventually
crypto wing
because i think that i don't understand
what crypto is but maybe i understand
what vr is
so crypto may be more potential because
maybe most of the people don't
understand what crypto is
and also there is a side story is one of
my uh very good friend
her let's see in law is about bitcoin
and i still remember the topic of
foreign will be whether bitcoin is uh
legal or illegal and uh uh
how shall we like take a project
this is a very interesting topic with
her because i say wow you know bitcoin
so early and i know from you why we
don't purchase bitcoin and she answered
because my essay conclusion is it might
be illegal
so i didn't buy it
and in that case we missed our first
chance valet very early yeah maybe like
very very early but it's lucky i still
uh be in the space in early time yeah i
have a similar path where i went and got
a master's degree in urban planning and
i went to work for multiple governments
counties and state governments and
after about six years i
did not like being in the field anymore
and i was looking for something else to
get into and that's how i landed at neo
news today you were mentioning that your
friend had an essay about whether
bitcoin will be illegal or not and that
was your first exposure to it the first
time i was exposed to bitcoin was around
2012 2013
and it was through a meme
that was making fun of a major price
crash to like four or six hundred
dollars
and i never thought about bitcoin again
until 2017.
so when was the first time you were
introduced to bitcoin when was this
essay written from by your friend i
think it is around like
2014 or like 2013 during the uh last
three years
it's also similar to your time yeah so
it sounds like we were in um our
graduate programs around the same time
so
you were exploring ar vr you were
exploring crypto all these different
industries
what was it in 2017 about crypto that
beyond the fact that if it was so new
and you didn't know much about it that
that would create an entry for you to
get in and become an expert in the field
real quick
what was it about blockchain and
cryptocurrency that you found really
attractive
that you wanted to make that your career
yeah it's a good question as well i
think that
it will be a story with another friend
because at that time he was hired by a
very fintech company and she invited me
to the conference she organized
i think it's landed fintech conference
and
on day one afternoon there will be
several uh subtopic
conference and one of it is blockchain
held by one shanghu
so wengshan is very popular in china
also a company based in chiang mai and
the other three maybe like insurance and
many others because i've never heard
about like blockchain so i'm trying to
understand what is blockchain
and it is uh in the second half of 2017.
so i should say that's the beginning of
me again to
touch
blockchain topic and after that
conference actually i met some friends
because there will be some speakers
giving um speech i think it's tom from
definitely at that time but now he may
be one advisor so a few topics um just
to kind of open the noodle and also
after that i attend several like meetups
offline and uh make friends there one of
it will be like from forgotten um
project's name but
it starts from that time i think that
i'm like kind of engaged in the
blockchain event making new friends and
globally and i think it's a very cool
industry because the people there are
not only chinese local
but they're from different countries
really cool yeah i remember
when i got into crypto just kind of
moving assets off of exchanges onto a
wallet
and then using back then it was
shapeshift which was the non-custodial
exchange that was really easy to swap
assets
that kind of blew my mind because i was
learning about stocks and learning about
index funds and equities
and then to be in crypto this frontier
and to have such uh hands-on experience
with
moving assets and changing them however
i wanted that was kind of my aha moment
and
i quickly found out about neo in late
2017 which is also when i got into the
crypto space
and the gas distributions from
holding neo in a private wallet were
kind of really mind-blowing for me at
that time
so it's kind of interesting that your
first job into the crypto space
was landing at neo which back in 2017
was
a really big deal it was it was uh kind
of one of the next big block chains that
everybody was talking about
so you know it's really cool to hear
that you were working in the legal field
and then you parlayed all this
experience and were able to land a
position at neo and eventually work with
the neo foundation
so how did you
move from the legal field and to landing
a position at neo which in 2017 was kind
of one of the really big chains so
it seems to me like that's a
kind of like a dream job to land into in
your first cryptocurrency job yeah it's
true it's true actually i think that so
maybe i will join the industry earlier
so it's possible that i make out another
position earlier than my new job however
i think when i got several offers
then it came fourth of september
you know 4th of september in 2017 is
kind of a disaster so um unlike you that
you tried a lot of products and
think the financial mechanism in the
crypto space is very fascinating i
should say i'm more interested in how
the
uh space is working
it's more international and the people
are more willing to share ideas more
open stores so i like those chemistry
and atmosphere so i would like to be in
the space and then to understand better
about the product when i first buy the
crypto and maybe within one week it's
4th september so i just got shocked and
confused wow so what's this industry and
um i just withdraw my reason writer at
the time and go back to my former job
again
then i got like referral from a friend
saying that there is a chance to join
one of the best crypto company where are
you willing to join i said yes so that's
the start of the journey and
i remember when i made the change in
careers it was in 2018 so it was the
bear market
and you just kind of alluded to
trying a new job in september of 17 and
it was kind of
a little scary so what was that
transition for you like were you
nervous going into the crypto space
because back then it was still kind of
i wouldn't say fringe like we thought
bitcoin and ethereum are gonna survive
but you know all these altcoins and icos
were were going off and it was very
hectic back then but i also remember
thinking
this is a very new industry and
i think it will survive but i'm not sure
so i was really nervous for my first two
years in the crypto space what was your
experience like when you were leaving
the legal fields which
we know there's always going to be a
legal field we know there's always going
to be lawyers we know there's always
going to be legal work
and jumping into crypto
where
you're watching these crazy gains in
2017 and everything getting erased in
for you what was that experience like
were you scared were you excited about
the opportunity what was that like i
should say
excited yeah
because actually my personality is kind
of willing to take challenge because
sometimes challenge means new
opportunity right
and i seem to
need to
give up something that people think it's
very
potential or have very good tones as a
career so i need to try something
different
and i think that within the last like
decades
the whole world is more international
more open so when i see an industry that
can
attract people from different countries
and sharing ideas and build something i
think it may be a chance no otherwise it
won't attract people from different
background and culture to do something
and also
it is very related to the technology
beside of the international i think high
tech is also another chance so sometimes
you don't need to understand all the
details you just follow up your feeling
and follow up the direction full of the
chain and those kind of high level trend
choice will be more important to some
detailed choice
i don't understand it's a good thing it
means not so many people understand it
as well okay whether it will fail or not
it needs time to prove it right
at least at early stage it will be a
very good chance for you to
do some experiments to prove it
so i think that i don't have so many
concerns my concern will be if i
don't think it is the right thing or
right industry anymore
if i have to exist doing it i won't feel
passionate i think that part will miss
more opportunities so once i decided to
join the industry after crash of 4th of
september again i think i'm ready
already otherwise i will stay in my
former job once i make the decision i
just feel relieved okay let's go let's
make it and back then everybody was
saying we're still early
we're still early and today i still feel
that people are saying that
so what are some of the differences
between
kind of the
market crash of 2018 and the recent one
we've gone through
what are the differences and also what
are the similarities
yeah actually recently i'm discussing
the same question with a few of my
friends regarding the similarity we
should say that maybe some kind of the
general
economic
environment is a little bit similar
because in 2018 actually it also starts
off
the world economy rate and it's kind of
a crash in 2018 also it will be more
years of the corporate
and nowadays it also starts another
crash economic to some extent also with
some local wars
when the general market
outside the crypto space is more
prospective we may have a better chance
however it doesn't mean if the border
market
are hit hardly we won't be impacted so
that's kind of the similarity to some
extent i should say for the difference
there will be quite many at least in
it um starts from the ico fever right so
at the time you can use your slide to
fundraise
millions of dollars or tens of millions
of dollars and it's so quick that a
bunch of people got reached and then
people other people lose their money so
it's kind of too hype and there's not so
many substantial things at the time just
because there are so many soap there so
it's time that people go back to reality
because they're not so many new money
coming in and it's time to stop the game
and this time i think the market is more
mature and actually we have more
substantial projects many many more from
like defined metaverse mft to dao and
social coins yes a lot of new things
maybe we have some at 2018 but so they
are not that mature product but nowadays
i think that we have more scenarios
utilities and
really solid products however the
leverage in this round may be
passed by uh also because of the
maturity of like d5 so the leverage is
too high and some of the c5 providers
they are borrowing a lot of money and
even using some of the users money to do
high-risk things again
the market is with too much money but
without new money so
it's similar but it's different do you
think that
this time around we had the same market
participants from the ico
boom
but in 2022 and and 2021 we also had a
new class of retail
that was participating in the market or
do you think that
in 2021 and in 2022
we were seeing largely the same amount
of people that were in the crypto
industry four years ago
but they just had
more funds to throw around or is that
not something that really made an impact
this time i think it's glad to see new
people coming in the industry so we
still have like some um same people same
group of people
thrown into this room and some of them
now become fuji but we also have like
new people and what i see at that time
is so popular is because a lot of
the new projects actually there is money
from individual persons right so i
should say most of them
may not have so much money got from like
the state-run private round from the vc
capitals but
instead they will have more of the
initial fund raising
from individual investors
but to this round you will see the
public sale only uh takes a very small
portion of the
early rounds and most of them will go to
the same round in the private room so
compared to last time i think
markets and even the way we do
fundraising is more mature so it starts
from the institutional investors first
and then goes to a
small group of the
individual investors so that's quite
different to me
and also the funding raised from the
market is much more compared to the last
round is it
safe to say that in 2017 it was retail
that was acting degenerate and maybe in
it was
more institutional degenerate activities
yeah to some extent it is because in
2017 i think that the
large institutions they are just like
watching how it goes right the whole
space is more like kind of an early
stage experiment
and people believe it will buy it and
they will support it
so they will use their money to buy
those kind of shares early stage to
ingredient their tokens but nowadays yes
to most of the projects it's well like
starting from
vc first or like android investors but
so why is it to some extent because
little you will notice that especially
this
year we've seen more investment down
or like different dow groups that can
help people to
participate in early stage investment or
projects as well right and some are
doing pretty good job
and also
i have seen that some launch pads
and incubators they are gaining uh more
attention and
some of the ways they organize the
platform where through dow as well so
maybe for this round starting from the
institutional but
now it can be institutional plus dell so
plus the individual investors okay so we
can't just say
this time around it's the institution's
fault for
the leverage and kind of crazy activity
we saw that it's a little bit spread
more across the markets and
also in 2020 to 2021 we also saw the
emergence of dow based investing
i remember the first time i kind of saw
this dao approach was with metta cartel
in
2018-2019 so it's been really cool to
see this expand across the ecosystem
to other
areas and other chains as well of course
neo now has grant shares where
you can apply for
seed funding essentially to the neo
developer community and it will be on
them to decide whether they want to
invest in the project that you propose
or not now
i i want to talk about some trends that
are going on right now but i also want
to take a step back
and just highlight the experience that
you had when you were at neo foundation
because
you got to
learn a lot of the insights that you
have now and that you're able to act on
you got to learn that by basically
throwing yourself into a brand new
industry
and being an integral part of the
day-to-day for how the neo foundation
and neo-global development was able to
make progress
so can you just give us a little bit of
a highlight
of the work you did when you were at neo
and kind of
who you collaborated with
and how you made things
happen you mentioned like the grand
shares and i think that i may be part of
the initiative
as well right because in the past it may
cause like new grants and that kind of
effort is because at the time we would
like to
have a more public mechanism that can
attract more developers to join our
global developer communities because we
have a very united communities for years
still the news today and a lot of other
developers around the world so we hope
that
if we can have some clear
published mechanism for them to
understand how we work and how they
apply for funding then it will be easier
for them to join us as well so i think
that me and a few members which is like
dean and stephen longfei and john d
yeah we are like talking having a lot of
discussion on it i'm very glad that
uh grand shares actually nowadays can
help with that purpose
to provide early stage support to
talented developers as i mentioned
earlier that i started from the new
overseas global marketing very beginning
i was like responsible for those
overseas events
starting from defcon and then like the
hexon to in europe and the second devcon
so it's about like traveling around to
offline meet our global communities and
share what we are doing and what's our
follow-up roadmap for them to understand
and join us to build
so that's kind of my main job at the
time and also at that stage i think
that's when we start to work together
with new news today i still remember the
first conversation we had is in eric's
office because at that day there is no
vacant meeting room and eric
that day i think at the time he is not
in office so we just use his office and
the whole marketing team i think no one
dare to
it's not like there but we don't feel
comfortable to sit on eric's chair so we
all like sit on the floor and the whole
marketing team sit on the floor and
making course with dean and i think
maybe also you and
i'm not sure if that time you're there
yes maybe right maybe
me and edge maybe yes you're an edge so
um the marketing team in shanghai and
the
mnt team okay we have our first
committee that's how we begin to be more
collaborative in the marketing side
so starting from events and a little
more to the peer side because then we
are um partnered with eak aaron's team
that gave more exposure to our second
death card in seattle and also invited a
lot of very nice reporters in tatter
media and the kos such as like data dash
etc to our on-site event
so i should say my role in the ngd team
is more about like traveling around to
make friends is very lucky and that's
why i also got the opportunity to join
new foundation because eric needs
someone that can help him to
communicate more with global
developer communities and i was doing
that already through those events
so got the chance to help with him and
having more
conversations
regarding how we built the product i'm
very exciting because i think that
marketing is about telling what we are
doing but joining new foundation means i
have a chance that can
helping making some strategy and when i
was like a new foundation actually
starting from regular
course with co-developers and global
developer communities
i think in the past we may
only have the chance to meet each other
during defcon
but we don't have so many interactions
outside github so i'm trying to build
more channels outside github
and
it seems that those communication is
beneficial because sometimes it will be
easier to reach agreement within a
shorter time and later on i
think that so we luckily got like um
john davider's be more engaged in
foundation as well such as my colleagues
long fair and stephen and
we as the group can like
discuss more strategy about how to grow
the community and how to facilitate our
industry launch yeah that's been quite a
good journey yeah devcon won in san
francisco was my first ever crypto event
that i attended and it was pretty
awesome to be there so it's really cool
to hear that you had your hand in these
major
international developer conferences
and then just by communicating with the
various developer communities across the
world
how you kind of had your finger on the
pulse for what was going on and helped
you know share that information
with eric and with leadership at neo
and to just kind of act as
like the centralized entity that
everybody could talk to
if they wanted to see something get done
so i really wanted to just highlight
your
experiences and communicating with
developers and then
hosting offline events because
in doing that you get to hear a lot
about what people are working on
you get to understand from the granular
the developer level sort of what the
trends are at the time for the work that
they're doing
so you really got to be in the weeds day
in and day out while these major trends
were
growing across the industry like the
addition of oracles and
the building of distributed storage
networks like during your tenure at neo
this was kind of
the infrastructure that was being built
and a lot of like technological trends
that people were talking about now it's
2022 we've built out these robust
networks we've seen various different
oracle and distributed storage networks
and the trends have
gone beyond just like infrastructure
that you know we were seeing be built in
2018 19 and 20.
so
what are some general trends today
that you're seeing in the blockchain and
crypto space
from the vc's perspective yeah
so i think that in the last round
actually we may be more focused on
building the infrastructure especially
like the public blockchains and that's
also the reason why i think you capture
all those like pioneering functionals
and make it
the native articles for like distributed
storage solutions because we think that
as a powerful leo run solutions we may
provide all those necessary
infrastructure and functions to
the applications building on that so
nowadays i think that the infrastructure
layer will be more mature and some of
the solutions will be decoupled right
for example there will be like separate
oracles and the distributed layers and
there will be different choices
so it will be easier for the
applications to
be successful
because they don't have too hands-on to
work on a lot of infrastructure by
themselves so they can save time to do
more research on how to
onboard users to adopt their solutions
and that's the reason why i think
nowadays the metaverse nfts may be more
popular because the end users can
understand it
and
the projects will be easier to launch a
new project within weeks even wasting
days
so
the first
change will be we are seeing more solid
applications
coming out
the second one will be the categories
seems to be
more solid as well because at that time
we also have like the game in back in
2018 and i also remember that new also
held a new game conference in
japan
in tokyo so in 2018 i think at the time
we have like the
um group kitties and we have a lot of
other like gamings but today the gaming
and the xc and the star sharks and many
x to earn projects
has a longer lifespan right because
their models will be more interesting to
onboard the users and some triple a
games are coming out such as like big
time and so people are willing to play
it and they can play for a longer time
under the nfts i think that people are
buying its stories either as avatar or
as in recognition of the culture or the
team behind it from our perspective like
i mentioned earlier that jsql will be
more focused on those user adoption so
we think nft
still great gamepl
here and personally i'm also very
interested in dao one of the reason uh
why i joined industry is because before
i joining a friend just convinced me
that the crypto space is about the
evolution of a new working way
that all people in this space can be
freelancers and the people just can be
focused on what they like what they're
good
at and they can build a team to work on
multiple different projects
and
contribute to
different ideas to facilitate it
so that is a totally different way from
the traditional company operational
model and which seems very attractive
because
it is about the crypto nomad it is about
freedom and it is about doing what you
are good at to do and
getting better reward
so all the things for the systems behind
it is so attractive and i think that
currently we may have like more
usable dell tools and down mechanism and
some very good models to refer to
so this is very cool and also um
something like the did even though maybe
it's not easy to facilitate it but
definitely the ownership of the identity
and the asset is something that
we want
and uh yeah maybe i think that new at
the very beginning is working on the
digital assets right that is something
very attractive in the space
even the nft is digital asset even those
like tokens are digital assets
so
i think
we are
facing a lot of new things
and we will see more coming out
and personally i will be very interested
to see those about user adoptions you
worked at neo for many years and you
were saying when you were at dfg you
focused on the polka dot ecosystem so in
your role at jscore now
how important is the layer one network
when you're evaluating projects or when
you're working with projects
are
people or investors or fellow vcs
really focused on l1s or are they
focused on
products and not necessarily on the
underlying layer first of all i think
different businesses may have their
different investments philosophy and
preference
so different strategies i think that for
later ones most of these do cares that's
the
reason why a lot of vcs do like invest
heavily in new
emerging protocols such as selena and
aptos right because they still think
that the underlying part
the ecosystem is important so to some
extent all the vcs will care about that
part
but
eventually i think
the investment decision will be
made based on the specific cases
so for example are you
leaving the team's
capability
will they be able to deliver the product
is the product
market fit
and how do you think of their plan
and
how will they solve some
existing problems and are they possible
to adopt a great
large user base so i think that there
may be some standards
to make the individual
decision
but ecosystem is also something we care
but in the other way around i think
ecosystem project
if there is a
popular use
which will make the ecosystem
prospective again right for phantom i
think they are based on the
d5 products
which makes it so popular so
it doesn't matter it's layer one or its
product because they are beneficial to
each other so
from your perspective
this year has been a
massive unwinding of
leverage and
poor token models so
when i say this i'm thinking of
these massive collapses we've seen
at the protocol level with tara
at the lender level with celsius and
voyager and blockfi
and even at the vc level with three
arrows capital
so in
vc were you and your teams
seeing warning signs of
these kind of over leveraging
and
if so
how did these kind of conversations
differ
from maybe the time that you were
working at neo which was focused on
development and layer one yeah
i should mention that my
boss our co-founder
especially like james
he has a good
risk management
very instinct with the
general market performance so compared
to layer one i think vc is
doing better job in risk management
observing the general market performance
to allocate resources and the fundings
in different stages
to get better rewards right also he
understand better about the market
emotion because this is very i should
say insightful or very sensitive in this
part
and
for all those like large companies you
mentioned that go bankruptcy
i think they will
having too high risk in the asset
management
that's why eventually got the current
situation and for later ones actually
their job is about like
building very solid infrastructure and
support the ecosystem to
build
really useful and good applications so
they are about like spending money for
better products and i i should say that
the goal of bc and layer 1 to some
extent is
a little bit different
because we see
even though they they want to invest the
best product and the most promising
project to and also support them during
the post-investment stage but they
purchase the interest as well but at
least ones the interest is not that
priority they would like to get better
product so no matter like their market
or more market they have to allocate
resources to support the ecosystem
building but the wise way maybe will be
some
asset management
to
have a better chance for long-term
sustainable support very interesting
insight about the different types of
industries across the crypto space
in
2020 the major trend was defy
i would say in 2021 the major trend was
nfts
i'm not quite sure what the major trend
in 2022 is maybe it's just another bear
market but maybe
from where you stand what do you think
the major trend will be in the crypto
space next year in 2023 and beyond it's
about prediction
it may also be a guess right because in
maybe the beginning of 2020 nobody can
imagine how defy is so
booming and perspective
so usually
guess sometimes is only guess because
people cannot imagine uh do many things
how quickly it will happen
but i i think it's only like personal
opinions
lately
i see the market cool down but people
are more interested to discussing about
building something and a lot of like
dows are pumping up
and there will be
research though and there will be like
investment dial and the like builder
dial consists of like developers and
some of the
dow groups they are trying to um
build the tools that facilitating those
dog groups so i think that these kind of
doubts may not be like as big as d5
projects but they are a new way of
working
so
currently i think in qt and q3 we will
see more doubts coming up
and even though the dow may not be the
eventual doubt that i can imagine off
but
i really like what they're building
and also the game and i think
chance gameplay people are starting to
realize only to earn is not enough
because people will easily get tired of
it especially after new
more users joining in when the economic
model things doesn't work so they are
more focused on making the games more
interesting you can imagine that people
will easily get bored
after a day of work they want to have
some fun so
if people can have some phone and earn
something at the same time they will
feel happy as well so i believe that the
game and metaverse also has a big chance
as well cool and kind of moving into our
final segment of the podcast the series
is focused on women in blockchain
and something that i noticed when i went
to shanghai in 2019 for the neo
community assembly
was that the neo global development
office had a very good
distribution of men and women that were
working
at the office whereas when
i go to
meetups here in the states
or i go to
companies that are focused on the
blockchain space there was a very male
dominated presence
so
i'm just kind of curious to hear what
are your general thoughts
about women in the blockchain space
is there more of an opportunity just
what are your insights
actually i think that i've seen many
women in the space especially around me
and
usually girls will be easier to
communicate and understand the others
feelings so they may be more capable in
some like communication roles or
like feel like bd roles so i've seen a
lot of like commanders being on really
good media and the same models in
different like projects
and also i have seen very talented
developers maybe at that part i should
say developers usually will have more
mail developers compared to the female
developers however i
started to see more women developers as
well so this space is quite
neutral as long as you have your skill
set
and you feel confident and you can make
contributions it's not only a man's
career right and
we we've also seen so many like energy
focused on women it's well received
so
i don't see the
male or female is kind of something we
should focus on because it's so natural
to me to have
female colleagues around me there's
another
kind of threat i wanted to pull on
in that
you mentioned that there's a lot of male
developers
but
there's also a lot of anonymous and
pseudonymous
figureheads in the crypto space because
all we are all we have to be on twitter
is an avatar right yeah and on github
all you have to do is produce code like
no one has to know
who you are what you look like what
you're into or anything like that
so do you think that
because blockchain has this kind of
pseudonymous and anonymous feature
that maybe
that
makes it more
welcoming or more of a even playing
field to some extent yes because if you
don't want people to know that you are
working on certain
projects
you can choose to be anonymous
and if you don't feel comfortable to be
public
then you can choose to be anonymous
and someone
may not allowed to do like side projects
a month beside their like full-time job
they still want to build something
they can choose to be anonymous so yes i
think that this is about
reorganization
of the way we work it's about the
freelancer it's about the doubt it's
about how we distribute the salary the
reward and
possibly
it
will
gradually becoming a chance such as we
work nowadays is quite popular because
we are accustomed to the shared space
shared office buildings with the
separate rooms and you can also use the
the space in the
living room right
so people can eventually don't have to
go to the office they can choose to
be remotely
and they can work as a nomad and meeting
friends around the world so i think that
is good but one day if they want people
to know
who they are they may use a way to
prove it and you know that bitcoin is
developed by satoshi and we don't know
who he or she is
so
it doesn't matter the thing is here and
it doesn't matter if we knock him off
her awesome and kind of the last
question i want to ask you
what is the
role of
mentorship i notice throughout this
conversation you're very gender neutral
actually you're saying that men and
women have from your perspective in this
industry
an equal opportunity to rise so i guess
generally
what's your thoughts on the role of
mentorship how important is it to help
people succeed
how do people seek it out uh what are
your thoughts
i think if you can get a good mentor
it will be very lucky and to some extent
it will be very
important as well because usually people
will get lost or confused
in certain periods of time especially in
such a new space there are a lot of
things ongoing there are so much news
happening every day
and there are so many opportunities also
some of the failures as well right maybe
one day you just think that where am i
and what i can do and what i can do best
so if someone with
rich experience can guide you
in
some way it will makes you more clear
and
confident
to stick to what you're good at
i actually say that personally i also
have those last moments
and sometimes i just like cannot figure
out what's the best
uh solution before i personally making
the
final decision i will ask for my friends
as well to share my confusion
and
trying to get some suggestional feedback
if i happily to have those kind of
mentors
i think that i will feel more relieved
and comfortable and take more time to
solve the problem that's the reason why
i think incubators and those very
vegetable vcs are more important as well
because they may provide really good
connections and resources and support
for early stage projects and also i
think that's also why such as layer one
foundations is so important because not
only provide the funding the grants but
also they will leverage their resources
to their projects to secure their
success yes mentor can be a person and
can be a mechanism can be a way awesome
well
grace it's
getting late friday night your time so i
want to thank you so much for carving
out the time from your fun time and your
schedule now to come join the smart
economy podcast i personally really miss
our
monthly calls with you and working with
you
so someday in the future i look forward
to potentially
working together with much more
frequency and cadence but it was really
great to be able to catch up with you
and to hear what you've been doing since
you left neo
and i'm really excited to
see what you continue to do and
to follow along with your path
so thank you so much for coming to join
the podcast thank you dylan thank you
for having me here i always remember
those kind of lovely moments when we had
the course at night and those persons
who
share the list will sing a song i still
remember that happy memory and look
forward to
collaboration in future as well even
though i leave noon but i still miss
here and i hope that the new ecosystem
will be more prospective in web 3. well
here's to keeping in contact and uh i
make sure to speak up now so that i
don't have to sing a song at the end of
of meetings
yeah i think today we both share a lot
so
we didn't have to do that song but maybe
next time we can ask something to
organize in online key tv and with the
background music and everyone saying
their favorite style
awesome well again thank you so much for
coming to join the podcast i don't want
to stand between you and beer any longer
so thank you and cheers
bye-bye
well what did you think of that
conversation
it was awesome to hear about grace's
insights into how blockchain and web 3
are changing the ways in which the world
works
not just a shift away from
corporatization but also towards a more
international model
it was really cool to hear more about
grace's conviction about the future
upside that dows and the metaverse will
have in blockchain space and i really
appreciated hearing more about grace's
perspective on the differences that
layer one foundations
and vc firms have on market outlook
and their differing asset management
strategies
and on that note i want to thank you so
much for taking the time to listen to
the smart economy podcast
if you liked what you heard and want to
support the show please keep neo news
today in mind when voting for your neo
council representative as part of neo's
governance process
we appreciate you and look forward to
catching you next time